If you're a B2B service business, cold


email is still the best way for you to


start and scale your business and get to


$100,000 per month. But the big problem


is it's changing and it's changed a lot


in the last 1 year and especially in


2026 with the advent of AI everywhere.


So, in this video, I'm going to be


talking about what is going to save you


from landing in the spam inbox and the


same tactic that I use to get 20% reply


rates on my cold emails, cold emails to


prospects, as well as the tactics that


our boy Alex Horoszi uses to get


incredible reply rates to his cold


outreach. So, let's dive into the video


here because


what you don't want to do is constantly


you don't want to be burning all the


domains, destroying your brand


reputation, and uh destroying the


inboxes that you take so long to set up.


So, you can see I pulled a bunch of


stuff from Reddit. Cold email


deliverability is becoming such a black


hole. How do you deal with sudden drops


in email deliverability rates and


sending thousands of emails but getting


zero replies? It's something that I hear


all the time from founders when I get on


calls with them.


They tried cold email, it didn't work.


They sent thousands and thousands of


emails and closed zero deals. How can


this be? Right?


So, here is a snapshot of some of the


stuff that I do. And if you look at my


Instantly account, you can see we


experimented with a bunch of stuff, but


mostly we get 21% reply rates, 25% reply


rates, 17% reply rates. And this is at


scale, mind you. Like this is, you know,


let me reload so you know that it's


real. This is at scale. Like if we look,


if we look here, we have generated $1


million in pipeline with this one


campaign.


But what would that do to your business


if you had 300 opportunities? If you had


300 qualified leads asking to speak with


you about your offer, how would that


change your business? Right? And so for


us, this is worth a million dollars in


pipeline. Now, what I want to show you


is how we did that. And look, if you


want to skip this video and you just


want me to set this up for you, then you


can just go to the first link in the


description, which is dopamineigital.io.


You can watch this quick video breaking


down my system and then listen to some


of the people that we've worked with


like Adrian who is the founder of Ripple


and they went from zero leads and zero


pipeline relying on referrals and


affiliates and events to now having a


pipeline that's so full of leads that


they've asked me to actually turn it off


because delivery is now their main


concern. Right? So causing them to have


a uh to have too many leads is is what


this strategy will lead to. And the same


thing with Dan here. Quality leads


daily. I suggest you actually go and


watch these case studies. They're like


15minute interviews with the founders


and how we're able to use this exact


system to uh completely fill their


calendars.


The sh the silent shift that is


happening over the next year is that


inbox providers like Gmail and Outlook


are enforcing new rules. They're using


AI in every place they possibly can. So


they have powerful AI spam filters which


can detect emails that look like a


pitch, understand the context, and so


you can't get around things by just


removing keywords anymore.


Plus, what you'll find is that AI is now


summarizing the tops of the emails,


right? So, the old blast and follow-up


strategies are being heavily punished


and they're resulting in bans,


blacklisting,


uh, deliverability issues, and so less


sends per inbox because what what used


to be okay is you could send 100 to 200


easily. Now it's more like 30 to 50 max.


More like 30. Okay. So here is what the


gurus teach, right? So go and buy a


third party lead list from Apollo and


then you load it in and pitch in the


first email. So these are three emails


that I pulled. Two are from spam. One


landed in the inbox. Um, but if you use


spammy keywords like this, if you pitch


in the first email, it's very hard to


land in the inbox in the first place.


So, you can see here, would you be


interested in acquiring a database of


decision makers, blah blah blah, key


industries, titles, which uh if you're


interested, please let me know. Okay, so


it's clearly just a they see that I use


certain keywords on my LinkedIn and then


they're like they scrape me blast. I'm


reaching out to see if there's anything


you would like to create. Like there is


no offer here. It's like, hey, I offer


these services. Would you like to would


you like me to do some of them for you?


I can be a service provider. So, there's


no offer. It's it's it's really weak.


I'm reaching out to see if there's


anything you'd like to create. I'm a web


developer and anything you can imagine


at very affordable prices. Just think


about receiving this and [snorts]


thinking,


I now need to sit and think about what I


can potentially ask them to create and


put together an offer almost for them


and say, "Okay, well, I want you to


create this uh AI app for me that's


going to be able to do all of these


things and have all of these benefits,


and then we need to go backwards and


forwards about a price." Just like think


about the friction that something like


this creates, right? So, I wanted to


show you a bunch of different examples.


Here is a commoditized offer. Here is


just literally selling a service. And


here is what I talked about before where


AI will give you an overview of what the


email is about. So, I will no longer


read the email. Just think about over


the next year, your emails, even if they


land in the inbox and even if they're


relevant and even if you've got a


fantastic offer, your prospects will not


read the email. They'll just skim these


bullets here. So, Anthony, shout out


Anthony, he emailed me and said, uh,


this landed in my inbox. If you or your


clients send outbound emails to big


enterprise businesses, it's probably


been a struggle to land in the inbox


since Microsoft added their new spam


policies. Yes, that's why I'm making


this video. Our email platform is


designed to hit Outlook inboxes due to


high reputation, dedicated IPs, blah


blah blah, a whole bunch of stuff that


sounds really fancy.


Uh, and then he leaves his uh his


details here and then he followed up


again. But look what the the reason that


this fa is failing is because everybody


and their mother can set up basic cold


email infrastructure. And so it's very


very easy to blend in with the hundreds


of other emails that you get I get every


single day. And I'm sure you're sick of


it. And you probably think that cold


email doesn't work because it's never


worked to capture your attention. It's


one of the biggest objections I hear


from founders is that I've never


purchased anything through cold email.


It's spammy. Yuck. I hate it. And so all


of these AI tools like instantly, like


Smart Lead, like all of these other


things uh are causing this market to be


incredibly saturated. And so people can


smell cold email from a mile away. And


now you've even got AI filters on the


inbox, stopping them from even landing


and stopping the prospects from even


reading the emails. So you really,


really need to have a better strategy.


So, if you keep doing what you're doing,


here's what's going to happen over the


next 6 to 12 months with these new


filters, with this new AI, with the way


that we are going in 2026. Reply rates


are going to continue to drop for you.


Domains are going to burn faster and


faster. You're going to open up your


inbox and you're going to see 1% reply


rates, whereas the other week you were


seeing 10% reply rates and you don't


know what's going on.


you will hire somebody like Anthony to


do the deliverability stuff, but it'll


just be a band-aid on a bullet wound


because the core fundamental principle


of your outreach has not been solved.


Uh you'll need more inboxes to just stay


flat. You won't have that parabolic


growth. you won't have something like


um Adrian from Ripple here who've said


hey we need to chill out on the on the


sending because we have too many leads


coming in right we need to build out the


team so that we can deliver all these


leads right and again watch this video


where he talks about something like that


I suggest so uh you you'll just send


more emails and have fewer conversations


and cold emails will just continue to


feel random and unreliable. It won't be


this predictable growth engine. So, you


don't need more inboxes, more fancy AI


tools, more templates, more volume. You


just need to change about change the way


that you think about cold email first.


So, here are the five fixes and then I'm


going to talk about some of the homozy


stuff and what we do. Stop treating cold


email like ads.


This is something that's really


important because when you send out an


email,


a lot of these people are just trying to


get impressions and eyeballs.


But what they're doing is they're


loading all of the stuff into their


software and they're blasting it out and


they're going, "Okay, it's just a


numbers game. 10,000 to get one sale."


But stuff like that may work on meta


where you are guaranteed to get in front


of the eyeballs. With email,


often times you're sending out an email,


but it's not even getting delivered and


it's not even getting opened. And when


if it does get open, it's not even


getting read. And so it's like a it's a


very different battle than ads. Ads, you


need to stop their scroll, capture their


attention, open a hook, and peak their


curiosity and get the click.


With an email, you need to get it


delivered, then you need to get it


opened, then you need to get it read,


and then once they read and understand


it, you need to get them to reply.


[snorts] And so,


there's many points of friction with


cold email.


And it's something that people get super


lazy with. And uh it's something that


you can easily overcome with a couple of


the fixes that I'm going to give you.


So, it's not message, pitch, call.


It's message, conversation, context,


then call. Right? Fix number two is to


stop targeting broad industries because


everybody is different. With some of the


AI tools that exist nowadays, you can


get pretty specific. Like especially if


you're using Clay, you can understand


what people are doing in their business,


what situation they're in, what triggers


they might have, what time. So, if


they've just raised funds, you can send


them slightly different emails. If


they've just hired sales reps, you can


send them slightly different emails.


they've just launched a feature if


they've just changed positioning. You


can do all of this with Clay,


uh, which is what we use, which is this


super expensive fancy AI software just


to say it pulls in data, allows you to


create context and understand it, and


then organize it in a sheet and export


it and pull in APIs and, you know, we


don't need to dive into that. Um, but


essentially you can do all of this


within something like Clay.


And then this is a big one, but like


stop using AI to write your emails


because I understand that AI lets you


write emails faster and more


professional and easier. And yes, I've


just said you can use AI like with Clay


to do some stuff here, but that's all


about understanding context. What I


would suggest is that you use the AI to


understand context of who you're


speaking to and what types of things you


can say, but don't use AI to write the


actual copy


because the AI spam filter will


understand that it's an AI email and


then you will go straight to junk.


Instead, use AI to find context. Use AI


to surface insights. Use AI to identify


relevance. And if you absolutely must,


use it to write the shortest email


possible. But what I would suggest is


that you figure out the best one to two


lines max that gets the most responses


and try to write it manually.


So, as an example on the uh campaign


that was getting a 20 plus% reply rate,


this is what I wrote. Hi Karen, thought


you might be a good fit for a podcast


I'm producing with leaders in the


consulting space. Can I send you more


details?


Super basic, one to two lines maximum.


Uh, I' I've done some research on these


people and I'm not reaching out with a


sales message. I'm reaching out with a


lead magnet and it's very very easy to


reply to this. Can I send you more


details? Yes. Are they committing to


sell being sold something? No. Is it


like


is it coming back to this one here? Is


it like this email where Anthony is


asking if he can send a short 4-minute


video explaining how it works? Well, no.


Because what I'm what I'm committing to


here if I say yes to Anthony is that I'm


interested in your process. I want you


to sell me and then I need to turn it


down or I need to make a decision. When


I'm talking to the people here, I'm


saying, "Hey, do you want a bunch of


value? I'm going to promote your


business and I'm going to give you


content in return. Can I send you more


details? This is a very frictionless way


of generating extraordinary amounts of


positive replies. Then we have a whole


bunch of systems and stuff like that


that go in the back end and qualify them


and book them in the calendar and follow


up and nurture them and blah blah blah.


But today is just about how things are


changing in 2026.


Like, can you can you see the difference


where I'm I'm making


I'm making a really simple,


straightforward, easy to understand


offer. I'm not pitching in the first


email. So, it doesn't trigger spam


filters because I'm not selling them


anything. It doesn't trigger resistance


and it doesn't get people to delete the


email. I have replaced it with a lead


magnet, which is one of the principles


that Homozi talks about. He's like,


provide big fast value. And so in this


email, I'm talking about inviting them


on a podcast, giving them exposure, uh


distributing that podcast content across


my network, and also giving them clips


of the content to them. So it's like a


done for you content engine. They just


come on, talk about their business. I


create five short form clips that they


can post on their LinkedIn and they can


now look like an authority. And so


either you can now if you don't want to


do the podcast either you can diagnose a


problem so like a free audit this is a


little bit


more difficult to do in this day and age


because people are slightly hesitant to


be like yeah come and like look through


everything. What I would suggest is that


you reach out with an audit already


done. Hey, here is a custom breakdown of


all of the things that you're doing


wrong and how you can fix it. And by the


way, I've already fixed it and here is a


solution. Let me know if you want me to


implement this. Otherwise, here is this


yours for free. You can give them a


taste. So, some kind of free trial or


you can sell them one step of a


multi-step process. So, um,


what I'm actually going to be


experimenting with is if I can go with a


more direct approach and say, "Hey, we


set up the cold info cold email


infrastructure and we've already done it


for you and there are leads already


coming in. Would you like those leads?"


That's something that I'd really like to


test, like to skip all the sales stuff


and the trust and the authority and be


like, "Hey, we've already done the work.


Here is the result. Do you want more


leads? Because they are right here. So,


this is an idea that I've had recently


that I really want to start testing. Um,


and so I can already have completed one


of the steps in a multi-step process.


So, imagine opening your inbox and


seeing, hey, Jordan, I have five people


who want to work with you already. Here


is the proof. I've set up the email


infrastructure for you already. No cost.


All I want is your business. would you


like to talk? Otherwise, here are the


leads. Go for it. Imagine imagine how


powerful that would be. So, that is a


high quality lead magnet. Now, the


podcast method works really well as a


blanket lead magnet because the value is


really easy to understand. Uh, and


people feel stupid saying no to it,


especially if they've tried a bunch of


other things and they are founder lead.


So, it's a great fit for what we do.


So instead of just offering something


good, offer a level of service or


product that others actively charge for.


So it's going to cost several hundred to


set up some of the stuff. It's people


charge money to come on podcasts and to


create the content that we give them for


free. And so it's very easy to


understand the value exchange and that's


why it works really well.


Um, and again, if you don't want to do


any of this kind of stuff, just go here,


click this button, fill out a form. I


will audit your entire business and see


if something like this is a fit for you.


I'll get on a call with you and I'll


walk you through the whole process and I


won't charge you a dime, which by the


way is a lead magnet. Now, so the goal


of email number one is not the call.


It's to start a conversation and just to


get it open, read, and replied to.


And then


I have been guilty of this in the past


following up


a ton of times. And the money, yes, is


in the follow-up, but these just


checking in. Hey, quick follow-up


messages tend to not work very well.


You can keep it super simple, but one of


the best follow-up messages that I send


is just, "Hey, would love to have you in


the podcast. Can I send you more


details?" And so sometimes,


you know, because not all info is is


perfect and people's inboxes are set up


slightly differently. Sometimes people


say that they missed the first email and


they reply to this email significantly


higher than other than than the first


one. Like if I look at at some of the


reply rates here, I'm getting 7% reply


rates on the second step email, right?


So like pretty good.


Pretty darn good. Um and this is on


this.


This is across this one. So like the


first email is getting opened uh and


replied replied to 7%.


The second step is getting replied to


almost the same as the first step. And


so never don't follow up, but don't be


spammy. three to four times is usually


what I try to send here. And if they


don't reply here, what I can also do is


message them on LinkedIn.


Um, and if they don't reply, I'll either


switch channels. I will uh try to be a


bit like different or scroll stopping


especially if I reach out on LinkedIn


with a different message. And my


follow-up needs to be relevant. They


need to you need to add context, provide


more insights or peak interest and open


a loop that gets into the reply.


So, look, if you want help setting up


cold outbound, you don't want to be


stuck figuring out what works and what


doesn't, go to dopamine digital.io, fill


out the quick form. It'll take you 2


minutes. I will audit your business. I


will put together a growth plan for you


and I will deliver it within 72 hours


without getting on a sales call. And if


it makes sense for us to get on a sales


call, I will get on a sales call and


I'll break down the entire thing and put


together a 12-month plan for you. And


then if you want to work together, we


can do that.


But not until I overd deliver a bunch of


value to you. So go to


dopamineigital.io, click this button,


watch this video, like read some of the


case studies, see other businesses that


we've been able to do this for, and


flood them. literally flood them with


qualified leads. So much so that they


have to say, "Hey, turn the pipeline


down a little bit. This is too much."


So, if you want that problem for your


business, click the link in the


description. And thank you guys very


much for watching. I'll see you in the


next one. case.