All right. Over the past month, Google has absolutely screwed us. Delivering cold emails to Google mailboxes has
become near impossible with Google's new wave of updates. So, myself and the
other industry giants in the cold email space have been running lots of tests. We've been talking to each other
non-stop to figure out what each other are doing, what's working, and there's some recommendations in this video,
which is going to be an interview with our top deliverability coach at the insiders. He's the guy that I turn to
when I need help with deliverability. I don't understand something, something big happens. So, you're what you're
about to see is an interview with a good friend, Tony Baltadano, and me and Tony are going to talk about the test that
I'm running, the test that he's running, and the test that everybody else in the industry that's either running cold
email infra companies or cold email agencies are running, what's working right now. You're not going to want to
miss this interview. There's a lot of really amazing gold dropped as well as
my secret what I'm doing for our high ticket clients in the short term while Google deliverability is affected to
still keep our reply rates at 3 4% in many cases and I'm going to be sharing that towards the end of the interview
and you are not going to want to miss it. Without further ado, here is the interview. All right, so over the past
couple months, cold email world has gone through a pretty turbulent time to say the least. Google has released a suite
of updates that caused legacy panels to go down and pretty much immediately afterwards released a deliverability
update that's made cold email just a little bit harder to to reach those Google mailboxes. Uh so I wanted to chat
with you Tony. Um and for those listening, Tony is the founder of Mission Inbox. He's also a
deliverability coach here with Lead Genj Insiders. And whenever I don't know an
answer or something big happens, Tony's usually the guy that I turn to cuz he is at the forefront of the testing, the
infrastructure and deliverability. So, thanks for chatting me with this uh chatting with me about this, Tony. I
really want to get to the bottom of this, not just for myself and all of our cold emails, but the thousands of people
listening that trust me with, you know, cold email infrastructure and knowledge. So, thank you for spending some time
with me, Tony. Tony, what are you seeing? So yeah, first foremost uh Jay, thanks for having me. I think what we
have seen lately has to do mostly with things that have always been a best
practice in general, things like the engagement rate, things like you know having a low spam rate etc being
enforced in a way more strict manner than any any time in the past. So the essence of code email in my opinion
hasn't really changed that much. The only thing that's changed is that in the past Google was way more loose when it
came down to their regulations to their policies and now because again code email is such a great channel to send
emails from or to you know build revenue and pipeline um everybody started doing it and they have to start removing the
bad actors from the equation. It doesn't mean that you shouldn't send cold emails. It means that you should have to adapt into the new way of doing it by
following best practices, cleaning your lid list, writing good engagement copy, all that stuff. Um we have seen again in
the past I would say two to three weeks um especially with Black Friday and Cyber Monday coming up. Um definitely um
the scarcity in terms of responses across every single client but this is a seasonality thing that has happened for
the last 5 years that I've been in the market literally seeing that that exact same thing which is during Thanksgiving
during the holiday season in general the majority of the e-commerce businesses start blasting emails out because that's
where they make the majority of the revenue for the whole year. So what ends up happening is Google and Outlook know
that that's going to happen that billions of emails will be blasting out. So they tied on the spam filters to
prevent people from being spammed by all these promotions from the different websites that they have subscribed to.
That of course ends up impacting you know our our normal cold emails which have nothing to do with transactional marketing emails. But it's a stem filter
as a whole that has silent dump, right? Generally by by end of of December,
start of January, it loosens, right? So that's why you see like a super high bump in responses by January, but it's
something normal, right? So I just wanted to share that because I know people are usually concerned besides the out of offices, you know, why am I not
getting as many responses as in the past? And that is actually the correct answer to do it. And who this sucks for the most I feel
like is the people who are just starting to send cold emails. they they they just joined the program right now. They're
just trying to build their systems right now because you set up all your mailboxes, you think you're doing the right thing, you're following all my
advice. And then you turn your system on and you're inboxing 0% to Google and it's like, you know what, this
sucks. Uh so I I I feel for those people and I've been there. But for me, how
Tony, how long have you been sending cold emails? So I've been sending since early 2020.
No, not 2020. 2017 is when I started my career sending emails on the on the cold email side of things and then full
infrastructure starting on 2020. I've also been sending a little little over 10 years and I've seen a lot of big
changes happen. So for those that have just started sending and are having a hard time inboxing to Google. I'm sure
you remember when this happened with Microsoft whether it was 2023 2024 0%
nobody could get through to Microsoft. They had lifted their spam filters so high, their guardrails so high that in
order to get through, not only did you have to have everything else dialed, you had to send like two sentence emails.
And since since that point, I mean, now we're inboxing 100% to Microsoft. So, a
lot of these guard rails, these transitory periods where it's really hard are are just that they're
transitory. And I think what what you what you said, the way you described it was really helpful. It's that they're
trying to filter out the bad actors. are trying to get people out of the cold email world and I think this is a good
way to do it. Um, but I we usually see these things start to return back to normal. We change our practices a little
bit and then we're back in business. But I' I'd love to talk to you specifically
about infrastructures that are working and infrastructure changes uh DNS records providers Google, Microsoft,
SMTP, and I'd love to talk to you about any tests that either you or anyone else
in the industry is running to get around these new guard rails. Uh to to see, you know, what people are doing, what's
working, and if there are going to be any big shifts in gold standards, I want to know what those are. Uh so let's
start with infrastructure. um any any big changes you're seeing there? So in terms of infra um I actually did
another webinar um last week with the people from inbox kit and also email bison where we're talking about all these different things. Again I can talk
mostly with expert opinion on SMTP infrastructure. However Google I can only get what I'm seeing from my clients
campaigns. However, um Saksham from from Inbox was able to help us with very
interesting information regarding Google mailboxes um in the sense that H mailboxes tend to outperform mailboxes
that have just started out. And this is something that I've said multiple times in the past, right? The more an email
has sent emails, call it warm-up emails, the more it builds reputation. And it seems that Google has enforced a policy
within the first three months where the mailbox is the most vulnerable. So if you want to think about it in a simpler
analogy, think of it as a newborn, right? Within the first, let's say, year or so, that newborn's going to be, you
know, getting the shots of vaccines, uh, you have to be really, really mindful of their health, etc. It seems that the
same way is happening with Google where a lot of people think that just like 3 weeks is enough and generally it is as
long as whenever you get to send your campaigns, you have a good engagement, you have many good responses, whether a
positive or negative response, any response is good. Um that is a main metric that Google is now looking into
and it seems that if you have passed those three months of Google mailbox inboxing right like get giving you good
results those mailboxes can last you for up to a year without having to replace it right so it's a very interesting
thing that we are seeing where even with SMTP infrastructure um I was sharing like my screen um back at that webinar
and we have clients sending with the same mailboxes inbox in both in Google and in Microsoft from mailboxes created
in February of this year by creating subdomains and everything else, right? Like it was it was very interesting to see that because normally you wouldn't
expect the mailbox to last more than 3 months, but it seems like if you're able to pass those three months where you
know mailboxes just keep on inboxing, Google will now, let's say, promote you in a sense, right? Like, hey, this is a
good sender. I'm going to start showing it to more people on their inbox. So, that is the main thing that I'm seeing on the Google mailboxes. Very, very
interesting data. Mailbox, we're not talking about domain age. We're talking about mailbox age.
Exactly. Exactly. And it follows like it it correlates in a sense, but you can create a brand new mailbox on an H
domain that it's not going to perform as good as a domain that has sent for over three months, especially from Google
mailboxes. SMTP is a little bit of a different story, but three months of creating a Google account and showing
Google within those three months, hey, I'm not a spammer. Like I'm actually sending mindful emails. I'm getting responses from the people that I'm sending it to. That really shows and
shoots up your deliverability for, you know, months to come. So for Google, people can consider maybe extending that
warm-up period for an extra month, an extra two months, and that could be the solution. Uh, and that's the the changes
to gold standards that we could be reaching from conversations like this. Uh, which is why they're so important.
Like Google makes a change, we make a change, maybe we extend the warm-up from two weeks to four weeks, from two weeks
to six weeks, and that makes the biggest difference. So we'll we'll find out. we're still very much in like the
learning and testing phase with these new updates as I'm sure you and and all of us are. Uh so that that's a good
insight. Uh any anything else what uh that you're seeing with infrastructure DNS records, domains,
fill us in. So regarding DNS records, I think the only thing that has been like a good practice for the past I would say six to
maybe eight months has been to set up your demark to quarantine. Um usually mailbox provider would normally set you
up to P equals none. um that basically says, "Hey, I have a policy, but don't
enforce anything." A P equals quarantine means, "Hey, if somebody's spoofing or damaging my email or trying to, you
know, impersonate me, please move it into the spam folder." I wouldn't go directly with reject. I've done testing
where we start off with reject even from the warm-up. It doesn't seem to be as successful as with just a P equals quarantine. So this is just a
recommendation on our side where you can start off at P equals none but as soon as you send your emails out you have to
make it look more trustworthy and that is when you know changing that small little setting where P equals none just
move it to quarantine and that should improve the deliverability a little bit especially for enterprise type of recipients. So that is what we have
seen. Um, another update in the past I think you know we've always talked about
Google caring about domain reputation and your engagement and Microsoft caring about IP reputation and domain age. What
we have seen though and and for the first time we've actually gotten like confirmation from Google specifically is
that in the past you would only go into the Google spam folder if enough people marked you as spam. That means that I
could have just been getting zero responses that if nobody, you know, opened my emails or sent anything, they wouldn't move me into my spam folder.
What we have seen now with the Google update policy and I can share screen if you want on on that, you know, sharing links and everything. Um, it seems like
Google is now penalizing emails that are not engaged with. So what that means is
that if you have a 0% response rate for you know let's say quite some time now and you're sending one specific set of
copy that copy can end up burning without you even going or getting a single response not because you're
getting marked as spam but because you're not getting engagement so what I've seen the clients to be the most
successful in the past few weeks is writing copy that is extremely conversational right so one of the main
things that I see from people just starting out is they try to be like supermarkety or very salesy in a way.
Even if they're removing spam words, it looks like a very salesy email. The moment that you start doing more
conversational copy and call to actions that invite for a conversation, you increase your engagement and therefore
Google is now going to send your emails into the spam folder just because nobody opened them. So again, just as a before
and after, in the past, you wouldn't go into the spam folder because people would not engage with you. Nowadays,
you're going to slowly get filtered as spam if people do not engage with your copy or with your emails that you're
sending. So, it's super important and a very interesting uh piece of data that I I've had my suspicions on, but I we've
never had conf confirmation directly from Google that that is now a thing. Okay. People are hitting the spam filter
if they're not getting replies at all. Let me ask you this because this is a practice that I've kind of secretly taught uh but never publicly because I'm
still not fully sure. Um, but maybe maybe you can confirm it for me. When using a tool like Instantly and their
free warm-up service, turning the reply rate, I think they recommend 30%.
Cranking that bad boy up to like 90 95%. What are your thoughts there?
So, I agree. If anything, my usual warm-up settings, my recommended warm-up settings was start off at 40 emails per
day. Oh, sorry, not 40 emails per day. Start at a 40% reply rate. Yeah. Can you imagine? now 40% reply
rate and then once you get to send your cold emails out bump it up to 80% so that in the eyes of the ESTs you
increase your volume but your reply rate didn't change because you're sending almost a onetoone ratio from one to the other now if you want to simplify things
just put it at 80% like if you were to download a mailbox from mission inbox the warm-up settings are going to be 80% from the get-go um whether you upload it
into instantly smartly the mail plus 5 like that is basically a setting that we are now doing we've actually done it for
I would say like the a good portion of the year since like May of this year uh where we bumped it up and we have seen a
better reply rate especially because the majority of instantly form employees Google accounts it really boosts central deliverability.
Okay, very good. Let's talk briefly about infrastructure since that's what a lot of people are going to be curious
about. Google versus Microsoft versus SMTP. Uh and let me take my best shot at
explaining SMTP for those that aren't familiar. Um, SMTP is the same method that like Active
Campaign or Mailchimp uses to send bulk emails. They're just using their IP addresses. Um, instead of like a Google
IP address or a Microsoft IP address. And the better the quality of that IP address, the more likely that that email
is going to land in the inbox, which is when I you want to send a a promotional email to a list of 20,000 people. Um,
Active Campaign, Mailchimp, it's probably going to land in the inbox or in the promotions tab. it's probably not going to spam cuz they keep their IP
addresses so clean and they won't let you cold email from there for that same reason because you're going to the cold emailers are going to ruin those IP
addresses. Uh good SMTP providers should essentially do the same thing. Uh you're
sending with your IP addresses, the mission inbox IP addresses. And the higher quality that SMTP service,
usually the higher quality the IP addresses, the more likely that that email is going to land in the inbox.
Obviously, there's a million other factors. domain age, copy, who you're sending to. Uh, but the big difference
is you're not using Google's IPs. You're not using Microsoft's IPs. You're using an IP range that you have bought and
that you're in charge of protecting and keeping keeping clean. How did I do?
Great. Well, done. Awesome. Uh, so there's a lot of different SMTP services out there. I always regard mission inbox as the
Ferrari of cold email mailboxes. One, because they're not as cheap as some as the other ones, but they're uh equally
effective. Um, so with that being said, SMTP verse Microsoft verse Google, is it
making any difference with the current issue of getting into the inbox of Google? So for Google recipients, yes,
the answer would be yes. We're equally as affected as everybody else. If the user doesn't adapt to the best
practices, and I think that is the main thing that is important to note here. Whether you use mission inbox, whether you use Microsoft um Ashure or Microsoft
direct mailboxes or Google resellers or Google direct accounts, who you're sending to is the rule. And if you don't
follow that specific rule, you're going to get screwed, right? So as soon as people, again, and this is part of the
communication that we tell our customers in terms of education, is guys, show us the copy you're sending. Let's try to
see how it looks. Let's try to do placement testing with this copy and let me reward it like word by word so that
it has the same thing. and it has the same essence. We run a placement test even with their own Google mailboxes and we see everything landed in the inbox
folder yet again. Right? So I don't think that there is a big difference in terms of of reply rate um as as a whole.
Like if you're sending from any provider the same copy to the same recipients, you're most likely going to see the same issues repeating over and over again.
And it doesn't mean that cold email is that now. It just means you have to adapt to the new rules. Uh but even SNTP
on our side is not doesn't have like a like a white flag that just says yeah yeah you you can pass yeah you shouldn't
follow the rules or things haven't affected you. No of course it affects everyone and we have seen every single
other mailbox provider also being equally as sensitive to the new updates. So, it's just a matter of changing your
copy, which honestly I think it's a good thing because it falls on you as a copywriter or you as a lead generation
agency owner to adapt, right? Like it's not an infrastructure issue. It is more a copyrightiting issue. And that is what
a lot of people think that, you know, infrastructure is just a magic wand that allows you to get into the inbox folder
for no reason. No, you still have to follow best practices. And the the best practices for copyrightiting, what you're actually
sending in that email have continued to evolve. I mean, when I started sending emails, we were tracking opens. We were
including links and images, and we were sending this tool called Clicksend. We would send to 50,000 people at one time
with their IP addresses. It would all inbox. It was just nuts. Um, now, and
then I saw some changes started to gradually happen. No more links in the emails, no more images in the emails, no
more unsubscribe links, no more words that could be flagged as spam or promotional. You don't want to say like
sale or money. uh because those are going to be spammy phrases that are going to be filtered into spam. Then we
started using a lot of spin tax. Then we got rid of any form of unsubscribe altogether. Then we it's just crazy. It
continues to get like shorter, more whittleled down and more restrictions. One test that I heard from one of the
members of my community, he's like this is working every time is completely AI
written emails. He's saying spin tax is no longer enough. uh because the phrases that he's interchanging in those spin
tags could be being flagged or banned or recognized. So, he's actually using uh
Clay or NAN to custom write each email with AI, which is not something I want to teach my community because that's not
easy to do. It's not very accessible. Um but I'm wondering if that's a test you're familiar with, you've seen, or
where you see the new kind of copy gold standards going. So I I think you brought a great point
and this is something that I'll probably take like two to three minutes to really respond in depth. I do think well first
and foremost in essence as a core making sure that every individual email is different because you're creating copy
with AI is extremely important right if no email looks alike then if somebody marks you as spam it's just marking one
specific like set of words that doesn't correlate to any other email that you're sending and therefore you can keep on
inboxing for a larger period of time at the same time one of the the quickest traps that I see people fall into is
thinking that just by personalization And by you getting into the inbox folder that you're going to get responses.
And what I mean by that is we've actually we saw a test from Taylor Herren uh who is an agency owner who was
sending emails with full AI um and then emails with no AI in terms of of
personalization and he was getting four times the responses with no personalization on the
copy on the AI component. Why is that the case? I think it is not necessarily
because the copy that he created with AI was bad. I think it's just not as relevant. Usually give time to AI to
hallucinate and that is not necessarily a good thing. So I think the sweet spot is how do you find a way to communicate
your message as quickly and as easily as possible without necessarily creating a super long email just because
AI decided to do some like weird research, right? So deliverability wise, it's definitely a good practice. it will
you will keep on seeing inbox in the response rates though which is what we care about usually ends up getting
affected the moment you try to personalize or overpersonalize your copy. So as long as you can make it
relevant and short within the AI prompt that's pretty much the sweet spot that you can find for having great results as
scalable results and not having to worry about deliverability as often. Completely agree with that. That's what I teach too. If you're going to use AI
personalization one word or two words. Don't try and do any anything crazy cuz it's probably going to mess up most of
the time and hurt your copy more than it helps. But I'm wondering if the variability could be key. Um cuz
I'm I'm looking at some of the copy my my uh insiders are sending me and yeah, they're using spin tax. They're not
using any flagged words, but there's long phrases that are being um alternated in that spin tax. I'm like,
you know what? it is totally possible that enough of these are marked as spam and that entire phrase could be
blacklisted. Uh so it's it's one thing we're we're following very closely. Um and that I mean I'm I hope it's not the
new gold standard that you have to AI generate every new email. I I always think about okay what is the Armageddon
of cold email look like? Like what is the worst case scenario where we have to go like back to the stone ages to
automate cold email and I'm like browser automation. I have computers running in
each room and they're just logged into into Gmail accounts and just using browser automation to copy and write
text and send those emails. Yeah, there's no there's no way they can ever block that. I mean, that's as about
as gold standard normal behavior. Normal behavior. And right now there's like ooth
connections to link your Gmail to to a lot of these platforms. There's fingerprints that that Google or
Microsoft knows are there and could easily take action against. The question is which fingerprint are they looking
at? Are they uh I don't know what what are your thoughts on the fingerprints? So fingerprints are important if it's a
very obvious tail. So some things that we have seen is whatever you're sending for example via OOTH uh via Google or
even with Microsoft there is almost no trace absolutely no trace that it was
sent through call it a sequencer of any sort. If you're sending via connection
of a mailbox via app, password or via SMTP and IMP which by the way guys like Google Outlook use SMTP and IMAP.
They're just big categories of their own or big providers. So they're considered just Google and Outlook. Um we have seen
that if you're not sending the API that ends up being added into the email headers. um specifically within there's
like AWS um 147 IP that it usually gets added within brackets is involve
fingerprint but again if you were to send via oath nothing like you don't see
any of that fingerprint now that being said I think again we see it more often
because we're in the cold email space however if you were to take a look into the volume of emails that you're really
sending or that every cold emailer sends on a daily basis it's most likely a very very small percentage compared to the
total volume of what Google or Outlook sent on a daily, right? So, what we know for a fact and this effect, the let's
say spam um team at Google, what they care about the most is actually spoofing and fishing, not necessarily just like
going and killing people on the cold email game. So, again, whenever they do something on the spoofing and fishing, they end up affecting us, but you know,
by association, not because they did something directly to us, because to your point, if they wanted to ban code email, they could easily do that. like
we see for example the the wordings or the phrases that our warm-up tools give us right like the unique identifiers
Google can automatically just decide to do that u kill it and then just you know prevent anything from being sent out so
they have the power I think we're just a very small percentage of people that is
because we're in the space we see it a lot often with our friends with our colleagues so we think that it's the big thing but the majority of the time that
Google really spends on on their spend filters is actually to prevent spoofing and fishing and scams If anything,
we just association when they lift the filters high enough, which I think is what's happening right
now with Google, it's what happened last year with Microsoft. Yeah. They probably kill all the the spoofers, the fishers,
a lot of the bad cold emailers, but they probably also end up affecting a lot of actual people trying to send cold
emails. Yes. Maybe that just launched a company and they just bought a domain and they
didn't set up their DNS records quite right. I mean, it happens all the time. And now they're all of a sudden not able
to to send cold email to their their vendors and clients. So, I feel like while they're catching a lot of us and
the spoofers and the spammers, they're also going to be affecting a lot of their real users, which is not what they
want to do, which is why the guard rails end up coming back down at some point. Uh, so that's I agree. We saw it with Microsoft
specifically, right? like the the update that we saw back in October 2024,
nobody could send to out to Microsoft to Outlook. It was like a big big deal that nobody would ever get a response from
Outlook. And then even their own Outlook users started saying, "Guys, I'm not seeing my messages from my procurement or from my
vendors like what's really going on." So again, I think overall it always ends up normalizing after usually six to seven
months. And I wouldn't be surprised if we have yet another update maybe on February of next year. Again, there's
nothing announced, but I wouldn't be surprised because that's what the industry has done. It's either Google
changing something or Outlook changing something. Thankfully, it's never been both at the same time, right? Otherwise,
we would be rotally screwed on that. But it's just a matter of adapting to it.
The other thing that I've learned from these the historical updates is that what they say is the new best practice
is not actually what you should do. Exactly. Yes. Which is something a lot of people mess up like, oh, I read the
update. what Google published. They want an unsubscribe header and everything. They want an unsubscribe down below.
What during the the last big update, that's exactly what we started off doing. And we're like, "Oh, why aren't
the cold emails going through?" Lo and behold, you remove all those unsubscribed links and the emails start going through again. Uh so, just
something for new cold emailers to to to think like, "Oh, why are you going against what Google says the new best
practices are?" because they're not their best interest isn't us getting through to every inbox.
Their their best interest is in preventing cold email from happening altogether.
Uh, okay. I've got a uh some tests that we're running. I've got a way something
that I'm telling my insiders and my high ticket clients to do and uh in this current time to kind of get around
things uh deal with deal with it for the time being without completely killing your cold email campaigns. Uh I I'll
share that in a second, but I'm wondering who you're talking to, what tests you're running, um any results that you're seeing in terms of copy or
practices or cadences or changes you're making. what are the what are the experiments going on in the world right
now that we're all looking at and and testing hypothesis. So I think something super important
here is we've always recommended usually a three-step sequence right like you
have everything within the same thread now no different like subject lines otherwise that will create a different thread. I think that's still the gold
standard um overall, especially with the new engagement um that Google has offered, right? Like if they say
whatever you're sending, if you don't get responses, you're going to be penalized. So people are not necessarily being as focused on just having a a
super long sequence of maybe four to five steps just to get a response out of someone because if they have ignored
your emails for five times, most likely they're either going to mark you as spam just by nature or they're going to keep on ignoring you and that hurts your
deliverability. So that is the first thing that I would recommend. If you have more than three steps, maybe tone it down a little bit more up until
three. That is for people just starting out, people that are have been in the industry for longer. Uh do know that
that is a a good thing. And what we've also seen, uh, funny enough, is people sending one to two subsequences. Um,
making the copy extremely conversational, right? So something like, "Hey, we saw something uh with one
of our providers. We did a case study. Most likely your provider is on that list. Would you like to receive it?" Like you're not even selling at that
point. And that is what Google really values. The fact that you're not like super pitching into your first cold
emails, making the copy conversational has outperformed even our own campaigns. Again, I have successful templates that
get me an 8% reply rate that consistently 50% positive engagement, right? So engagement itself is not the
issue, but again, copy fatigue is still happening. what we did um literally we did this by
November 15 so almost about a month ago we started launching a campaign where it was a very conversational tone again in
my case I've built a brand so it's easier for me to just send like hey you know I see you're in the cold email space we did this this and this would
you like to receive it something like a WhatsApp and this is something that I I'm usually telling
people like if you wouldn't be able or if it sounds too formal to send to a friend on a WhatsApp maybe you have to
tone it down and again it goes against all the best practices because if you're selling to enterprise of course you have
to follow like specific guidelines but again it's just understanding your users um when it comes down to sending volume
funny enough uh what we have seen and again please everyone take this with a grain of salt this is not a recommendation we see clients that are
getting extremely high retire rates I'm talking about maybe you know 10 15 even 20% in some cases at large scale because
of the a very attractive offer that they're sending to and they have been able to push their email volume to maybe
40 and even 50 emails from a mailbox per day. So, it's almost like twice the volume that you would normally send from
a mailbox. The main idea is, well, if Google is, you know, promoting mailboxes that have great engagement and positive
engagement at that and you keep on having that thread of back and forth communication with your customers, then
shouldn't I be able to increase my volume without being affected? And so far, again, from the test we have seen
over the past month, it seems to work out great for them and reply doesn't decrease, which is very interesting,
right? people that were sending uh you know from 30 mailboxes uh 30 emails per day,
they're now being able to send almost 1,900 emails on a daily basis by just doubling that um that sending volume
because the reply rate suggests that you can do that. So that is the only thing that if you have if you're someone that
has a 10% reply rate, 15% reply rate, give it a shot with maybe two to three mailboxes depending on how many
mailboxes you have and increase that volume. um most likely your reply rates are not going to get affected and you're
going to be able to squeeze more emails out of that same list and without having to buy extra infrastructure.
Okay, very good. Uh what about domains and DNS records? Uh are you doing
anything with age domains? Are you seeing any difference? And you already mentioned one change to DNS records.
I'll mention one more that we're now teaching as a gold standard is no more tracking domains. Um all of the CNAME
records pointing to instantly. I don't know if it makes a difference, but it's just like an obvious
fingerprint that I don't think needs to be there because we're not tracking replies, clicks, opens anymore. We're
tracking replies, not clicks or opens. So, there's no reason to really have it there. Uh we're not including the unsubscribe link. Uh so, that's one
thing that I'm teaching. Anything else that you're seeing, testing, teaching?
So, regarding domain um H domains, we're actually launching a super high scale uh
test. Again, we're keeping quiet until we have more more context. Um, but so
far again, we we're working at least with Mission specifically. Um, we have worked with lot lots of investment
banking and private equity firms that they need to send tons of emails to their credited investors and they have to do it from a specific domain that is
their company domain because of JDPR, CCPA like your financial institutions. they have to adapt to them and what we
have done for for a lot of them is they need to send for example 120,000 emails per day from a single domain. So how do
you even go about it just like you were saying like if you were to do this with active campaign or with um you know
Mailchimp or sending blue or whatever the case might be most likely you're going to get into the input folder for
like one to two days. What we have done with them is basically creating an army of subdomains. So a subdomain would be
something like meet.google.com or mail.goole google.com sheets.google.com. Each one of these subdomains inherits
the domain's reputation. And in our case, again, we have a product that does API sending uh for high sales. So, very
similar to to the transactional marketing side of things. We're sending 500 cold emails per day from each of
these subdomains and they're inboxing even to the toughest of recipients, Outlooks, I mean at Outlooks, at
Hotmails, at Yahoos, at AOL, etc., which are again tougher to get into the box
folder for. In their case, it's almost like an opt-in recipient list. So, it's a little bit different. Uh but the
majority of them are not like it's it's in the sense that they have the approval to contact these people, but they haven't been opted into the platform.
And it just goes to show that, you know, high volume sending uh via API can be a
way to go. And I I'm more than happy to share more details on that, but it's basically not even sending from
mailboxes. And I I'll say something. You don't need mailboxes to this is like a mail gun or uh a send
grid approach using API and subdomains. And those subdomains, the benefit of them, like you mentioned, they inherit
the reputation of the primary domain. And if they get burned, you stop using that subdomain. Your
primary domain is fine. You go on to a different subdomain. Pretty much. Pretty much. Yeah. It's not a practice most people
use. Um I don't think a lot of people even know about it. That is the main thing. Yeah,
we could definitely do a follow-up episode specifically on that. I'd love to to pick your brain a little bit deeper if you have, I guess, a primary
domain that has reputation that you can spin off of. Very good. Uh, okay.
Any other big big news to share, things you want to chat about? The big other thing I had on my agenda was this this
kind of came right after the wave of Google legacy panel bans. And I've been talking to a lot of people in the
industry and you know myself, my clients included, lost some of these panels. Uh took the domains that were attached to
those panels and moved them over to things like mission inbox to create new mailboxes on them. Uh some clients are
experiencing issues, some clients are not. I'm wondering if if potentially Google has some secret blacklist that
they're not publishing that those domains are on or or what you're seeing there.
Yeah. So honestly, I don't think any any person that migrated domains from let's
say Google uh because they got locked out of that account. So you cannot recreate them in another Google account, but they either moved it into a
Microsoft account or an SMTP of some sort if they allowed or opened up the DNS records. I don't think a single one
of them has faced issues if the domain didn't have any underlying issues before migration. What do I mean by that? If
your domain had just been in warm-up uh for say two to three weeks and it never sent a single cold email and you have
done a placement test to show that it was actually landed in the inbox folder, the domain reputation stays with that domain. It doesn't stay with the MX
record of who you were sending to. Especially if the provider that you're migrating is trustworthy, has good reputation, good use cases. So again, we
have actually bunch of clients that we migrate even today. um like hey I have all these domains like maybe 100 domains
that I need to you know can I use them the answer usually is we can move them we usually do a placement test right
away uh we create one single mailbox to see if it's even worth creating or or using them and based on those results we
keep on uh increasing that volume but I think in a nutshell the essence is if
your domains had underlying issues changing ESPs is not going to fix it if your mailboxes didn't have any issues or
if your domains didn't have any issues then you can start literally resuming sending that day without seeing anything. Um, if you want to allow for
maybe two to three days of warm up, like if you created a on a Friday and you leave the mailboxes to warm up for two
to three days so that the ESPs know, okay, this domain is now sending from this IP with this MX record, fine, but
it's not even needed. It's not even required. So that is what we have seen. We actually have a lot of like great
responses from clients saying, hey, like this actually, you know, saved my butt because I had I was about to turn a
client and I couldn't wait two weeks to to resume my sending. So they just did that and it goes back to just to repeat
it one third time. If your domain didn't have issues, you shouldn't have issues with the new thing. If you're facing
issues, most likely it is either the copy that you were sending in the past or the fact that your domain had just a
bad reputation score before migration. Okay, love that. That's super helpful. Uh, so I'd love to share one thing that
I'm telling uh my clients to do in the interim if they're not inboxing 100% to Google just so they because if you're if
you're hitting spam 100% of the time you're emailing Googles, you may as well turn your campaigns off and stop emailing the Googles. So you're just
going to hurt the reputation even further, waste those leads. Uh, so
there is I'm going to share my screen just to demonstrate this thing. if I can get Oh,
Riverside to allow me to. Never mind. I'm not going to share my screen. I'm going to post this uh after at the end
of our interview. But the uh the essence of it is in instantly in most of these cold email sequencers when you upload
the leads to a campaign, they go through and categorize the leads, Google, Microsoft, uh Zoho, whatever, whatever
that uh that provider is. And then you can filter by that provider and just
remove those those Googles from the campaign for the time being. So that you're only sending to Microsoft that
you're inboxing 100% to. So do the placement test. See, oh I'm
inboxing 50% to Google, 100% to Microsoft. Let's grab all the Googles
and put them into this drafted campaign that we're going to start once we fix the deliverability issue. And now all of
a sudden, you're going to see a 2, three, 4x increase in your reply rates. and a healthy campaign once again. Uh,
and in my experience over the past decade of doing this cold email thing, I would I would agree with you. 3 to 6
months and it's going to be like it never happened and 2026 we're going to be talking about remember when Google
did did that thing and it was a pain in the ass to to inbox to Google. Uh, so if
if the pattern continues uh as history has taught me it does, uh, I think 3 to
six months from now we're going to be looking looking back and laughing at this. We're bad. And again, it's it's a good practice what you're saying. Just
prepare just like we did with Microsoft. Everybody started moving Microsoft mailboxes. That's fine. One thing uh
extra note that I would like to add, if you're doing a placement test, maybe do two. And the reason for that is do a
placement test with something very conversational like even talking to a friend like, "Hey, yeah, I'm going to be in in Miami um next week. Can we grab up
lunch?" That should get into the inbox folder. Give me one second. I'm about to go up a little bit.
Yeah, you're good. And that's a that's a good point because the copy there's so many factors that in are involved in getting into the inbox. Copy has become
such a big one. Um so you're right. Doing the inbox test with the copy that you're currently using isn't going to
tell you the exact reason that you're not hitting the inbox. If you want to find the reason, you have to do a couple
different placement. Yeah. Go ahead. I'll let you finish your finish. So it's basically just two tests. If your emails, if you're not
seeing responses from Google and you do a placement test with your copy and it
shows up as spam, it doesn't necessarily mean that that domain is in the spam folder forever. What it most likely
means because what we have seen lately is that copy is the first thing that gets filtered as spam. So what you
should do is okay, can I change my copy ever so slightly to the point that I can start inboxing
yet again? And what we usually see in I would say maybe 80% of the cases is guys, you just have one specific phrase
or one thing in your signature, one thing in your hookline that was making the emails go into the spam folder. And
again, it it requires more time. And I think at this point in time, we have to be more mindful about every single test
that we do. We have we should have SOPs on how to test for spam. Um because again, we see this pretty much every
single day. We have clients saying, "Hey guys, my mailboxes are not landing. Like I'll I'll cancel whatever." I tell them, "Sure, maybe you want to cancel. will
cancel, but let's meet let's let's do some placement testing to get to the wits of it because again it's not necessarily an infrastructure issue if
you keep on sending the same copy that got you into the spam folder in the first place. No infrastructure will get it into the inbox folder. So
understanding that there's layers to you know the deliverability, there's the infrastructure layer, there is a
copyrightiting layer. If you manage both of them separately and you understand that each one of them has its own
repercussions, then you're most likely going to be extremely successful in code emailing because you know what to look for. So
creating SOPs, watching J's content, taking a look into the insiders community to see what other people are
doing and then just, you know, start adjusting your SOPs. I would say that that's most likely the main thing that I want to take people um or what I have
people take from this call. Go into your SOPs, change them, and do different placement testing. one with your copy,
one without your copy and see how that placement uh test looks in difference. Very well said, Tony. Couldn't I
couldn't agree more. Okay, I want to leave the audience with just uh kind of a final call to action. Um use good
mailboxes, use good infra. Uh we use Tony's mission inbox. How many mailboxes do we have with you guys now? That went
from like zero to 10,000 pretty quick. I was I was going to say like it's getting close.
It's been a lot. It's been a lot. Uh they do a great job. So, if you're looking for a really high quality SMTP provider, I couldn't
recommend uh Tony and Mission Inbox enough. And if you sign up for his service and you're not 100% in Google
right away, this is why uh it's everybody, of course. Um so, Tony, thank you for
for joining me for for this call. Uh if anyone's listening and they want to stay
like finger on the pulse of what's going on in this world, make sure that you're inside of our communities. The lead
genen insiders is my kind of pillar community for lead generation and cold email. That's where I am every day
talking about this stuff. So, make sure to get in there. Everything's going to be linked below, including a discount to mission inbox if you do want to get
started. Uh, so Tony, thank you again. It's been uh it's always a pleasure.